Part 1: A supervised learning approach to link-prediction (50%)
In the first part of this assignment you will develop a link-prediction algorithm based on the supervised learning methods you learned in this course. Link prediction can be framed as a classification problem, where an algorithm can be trained to predict the class of any possible link — existent (positive) or non-existent (negative). To tackle this problem you should follow some steps:

Feature engineering: First you should be able to import network data and define the features you believe are relevant to predict links in social networks. The data we will provide you consist of a social network where some links were removed. Each node will also be characterised by a categorical feature. Examples of important features might be the class that nodes belong to, or the number of common connections between nodes.
Defining a training, validation and test set: Once you have defined your feature space, you have to create your training, validation and test set. Your training set should be composed of positive examples (i.e., edges that exist in the network that was provided to you) and corresponding features. Your training set should also be composed of negative examples (i.e., edges that do not exist in the network provided). You will need to decide the ratio of positive and negative examples to include in your training set. You also have to decide about the split between training, validation and test set to train and select your best model. 
Model selection and validation: Once you have the required training and validation set, you have to select a model to be trained. You must use one of the methods discussed in the lectures (more complex models will not lead to higher performance, given the characteristics of the data we will provide you).
Application and test: Once you trained and validated your model, your solution should be able to decide if a (missing) link exists or not in a network. You will be welcome to submit your guesses to a Kaggle competition (details below). 
Note that we provide an auxiliary notebook Download auxiliary notebook (and auxiliary files Download files) that can greatly help you in the previous steps. 

 

Data
The base dataset to use consists of a (synthetic) social network with 1000 nodes and 4368 links. This network was generated by removing 10% of the links of an original network. Your task is to accurately guess whether a link given as an input belongs (or not) to the original network. All needed data can be found in the following zip file Download zip file.

Network data: Each node is numbered from 0 to N-1, where N is the number of nodes in the network. The network structure is provided as a list of edges (edges_train.edgelist). In this file, each line corresponds to an edge (or link): int1,int2 where int1 and int2 correspond to the identification of each node connected by the edge. The network is assumed to be undirected (i.e., if a connection between nodes 1 and 2 exists in the file, the connection 2 to 1 is also assumed to exist).
Node data: Each node is characterised by a categorical feature that can take 5 possible values (d, c, e, f, g). These might constitute a sensitive attribute (e.g., political affiliation, personal preferences, demographic data...). The feature of each node is provided in a .csv file (attributes.csv). In this file, each line corresponds to a node and the value in a given line corresponds to the feature of the corresponding node. 
Final test data: The ultimate goal of your algorithm is to determine if a link exists or not in the original network. In file solutionInput.csv you are provided a list of links. You should be able to output, for each link, a prediction: 1 if you believe the links exists in the original network; 0 if you believe the links does not exist in the original network. solutionInput.csv contains a total of 970 links: 485 exist in the original network (positive examples); 485 do not exist in the original network (negative examples). Your ultimate goal is to develop an algorithm that achieves high accuracy in this test data. An example of output that your program should provide is given in file predictions.csv Download predictions.csv.
 